标题: Efficient Training Approaches for Performance Anomaly Detection Models
  in Edge Computing Environments

作者: Duneesha Fernando, Maria A. Rodriguez, Patricia Arroba, Leila Ismail, Rajkumar Buyya

发表日期: 2024-08-23

摘要: Microservice architectures are increasingly used to modularize IoT
applications and deploy them in distributed and heterogeneous edge computing
environments. Over time, these microservice-based IoT applications are
susceptible to performance anomalies caused by resource hogging (e.g., CPU or
memory), resource contention, etc., which can negatively impact their Quality
of Service and violate their Service Level Agreements. Existing research on
performance anomaly detection for edge computing environments focuses on model
training approaches that either achieve high accuracy at the expense of a
time-consuming and resource-intensive training process or prioritize training
efficiency at the cost of lower accuracy. To address this gap, while
considering the resource constraints and the large number of devices in modern
edge platforms, we propose two clustering-based model training approaches : (1)
intra-cluster parameter transfer learning-based model training (ICPTL) and (2)
cluster-level model training (CM). These approaches aim to find a trade-off
between the training efficiency of anomaly detection models and their accuracy.
We compared the models trained under ICPTL and CM to models trained for
specific devices (most accurate, least efficient) and a single general model
trained for all devices (least accurate, most efficient). Our findings show
that the model accuracy of ICPTL is comparable to that of the model per device
approach while requiring only 40% of the training time. In addition, CM further
improves training efficiency by requiring 23% less training time and reducing
the number of trained models by approximately 66% compared to ICPTL, yet
achieving a higher accuracy than a single general model.